\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename gnubiff.info
@settitle gnubiff
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for gnubiff version 2.1.3 Copyright @copyright{}
2000-2005 Nicolas Rougier.
@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Utilities
@direntry
* gnubiff: (gnubiff).       A mail notification program for Gtk and Gnome.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title gnubiff
@author Nicolas Rougier
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
Published by Nicolas Rougier
@end titlepage
     
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top gnubiff
     
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex


@menu
* Copying::            Your rights
* About gnubiff::      What it is and what it is isn't
* Installation::       How to install gnubiff
* Start gnubiff::      How to start gnubiff.
* Using gnubiff::      gnubiff interface.
* Files::              Configuration files.
* Animation format::   Description of PNG animation
* Contributors::       People who have contributed to gnubiff.
@end menu


@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@unnumberedsec
@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
@noindent To install gnubiff:@*
@command{./configure}@*
@command{make}@*
@command{make install}@*
@sp 1
@noindent To have gnubiff to use GTK only:@*
@command{./configure --disable-gnome}
@sp 1
@noindent To have gnubiff to save password (unsecure):@*
@command{./configure --with-password}
@sp 1
@noindent To have gnubiff to use a given encryption table:@*
@command{./configure --with-password-string}
@sp 1
@noindent To disable the expert mode editing tab as default:@*
@command{./configure --disable-expert}

@include gpl.texi

@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
@node About gnubiff
@chapter About gnubiff
@unnumberedsec
@comment ------------------------------------------------------------

gnubiff is part of the GNU project, released under the aegis of GNU.
@sp 1
gnubiff is a mail notification program that checks for mail, displays
headers when new mail has arrived and allow to read first lines of new
messages. It relies on the GNOME and GTK+ libraries but can be compiled
and used with or without GNOME support. Supported protocols are pop3,
apop, imap4, mh, qmail and mailfile.  Furthermore, gnubiff is fully
configurable with a lot of options like polltime, poptime, sounds, mail
reader, mailbox names, etc. and can also filter spam.@* Note that
gnubiff is not a mail reader even if it offers the possibility of
reading very first lines of new messages. If you send some requests for
specific features to be implemented, keep that in mind!
@sp 1
@noindent Homepage: http://gnubiff.sourceforge.net/


@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
@node Start gnubiff
@chapter Start gnubiff
@unnumberedsec
@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
Depending if you have compiled gnubiff with or without GNOME libraries,
you'll be able to start gnubiff from command line or from the GNOME
panel.

@section How to start gnubiff in GTK mode
@command{gnubiff [-c|--config file] [-n|--noconfigure] [-v|--version] [-?|--help] [--usage]}
@sp 1
@table @samp
@item -c file, --config file
This option allows to specify an alternate configuration file,
default is '$HOME/.gnubiffrc'.
@item -n, --noconfigure
Skip the configuration process.
@item -v, --version
Displays version number and exit
@item -?, --help
Shows a list of all supported options
@item --usage
Displays a brief usage message
@end table

@sp 2

@section How to start gnubiff in GNOME mode
After installation, you should be able to select gnubiff in the Internet
menu of the GNOME panel. Be careful that after installation, panel has
to be restarted if this is your first installation. If gnubiff doesn't
appear, check that prefix you provided at configure time is correct
(usually, it's /usr). If prefix is right, panel has been restarted and
gnubiff doesn't appear in GNOME panel menu, please contact the author.



@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
@node Using gnubiff
@chapter Using gnubiff
@unnumberedsec
@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
gnubiff has several mouse shortcuts:
@sp 1
@itemize @bullet
@item You can invoke a submenu by right-clicking on the applet window. 
@item You can mark mails as read by middle-clicking on the applet
window.
@item You can force a check by left clicking on the applet window.
@item You can invoke your mail reader by double left-clicking on the
applet window.
@item You can read first lines of mail by left-clicking on them in the
popup window.
@item You can pop down popup window by right-clicking in it.
@item As long as your mouse pointer remains in the popup window, popup
is not popped down.
@end itemize



@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
@node Files
@chapter Files
@unnumberedsec
@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
gnubiff loads ans saves parameters in default file "~/.gnubiffrc".

@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
@node Animation format
@chapter Animation format
@unnumberedsec
@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
gnubiff uses a very simple PNG animation format that allow to use full
color images and also to handle alpha channel properly (thanks to PNG
support). The idea is simply to put all frames of your animation in one
big PNG image and gnubiff will take care of the animation. But, gnubiff
cannot decide what is the size of a frame based on image size and so
you have to provide this size with the name of the image. The convention
is that frame size is given between parenthesis.@* 
For example, "anim(64x64).png" means that frame size is 64 by 64
pixels and then image should be n*64 pixels wide and 64 pixels tall
(where n is the number of frame).
@sp 1
@noindent To convert a gif animation to this format just type:@*
@command{convert +append animation.gif animation(64x64).png}


@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
@node Contributors
@chapter Contributors
@unnumberedsec
@comment ------------------------------------------------------------
The authors would like to thank their many contributors.  Without them
the project would not have been nearly as successful as it has been.
Any omissions in this list are accidental.  Feel free to contact authors
if you have been left out or some of your contributions are not listed.
Please keep this list in alphabetical order.

Authors:@*
@itemize @bullet
@item gnubiff has originally been written by Nicolas Rougier
@end itemize


Developers:@*
@itemize @bullet
@item Nicolas Rougier
@item Robert Sowada
@end itemize


Maintainers:@*
@itemize @bullet
@item Tim Bishop
@item Roland Stigge
@end itemize


Translators:@*
@itemize @bullet
@item Victor Alonso (es)
@item Elros Cyriatan (nl)
@item Stefano Fabri (it)
@item Nicols Lichtmaler (es)
@item Michel Robitaille (fr)
@item Nicolas Rougier (fr)
@item Clytie Siddall (vi)
@item David Smeringe (sv)
@item Robert Sowada (de)
@item Roland Stigge (de)
@end itemize


Various contributors:@*
@itemize @bullet
@item Craig Agricola
@item Adam Benjamin
@item Josh Berdine
@item Philippe Berger
@item Dennis Bjorklund
@item Nicolas Evrard
@item Greg Fenton
@item Byron Foster
@item Grzegorz Gotawski
@item Earl Killian
@item Marc-Jano Knopp
@item Paul Kuliniewicz
@item Jean-Yves Lefort
@item Michel Leunen
@item Jason Lowdermilk
@item Sascha Ludecke
@item Calum Mackay
@item Michael Moellney
@item Sophie Morel
@item David Mosberger
@item Neil Muller
@item Josh Parsons
@item Pete Phillips
@item Christian Probst
@item Reid Rivenburgh
@item Hans-Ulrich Schaefer
@item Achim Settelmeier
@item Phil Shapiro
@item Clytie Siddall
@item Erik Sittman
@item Barry Skidmore
@item Chris Snell
@item Blaise Tarr
@item Theodore Tegos
@item Iulian Tocu
@item Richard Torkar
@item Bernhard Valenti
@item Dries Verachtert
@item Suzan Wassman
@item Cai Yu
@end itemize

@bye
